Killing a Garrison by The Black Goat - an awesome guide on whats important and what to do.
By Lynesse Wylde on Monday, January 19, 2015 at 9:05pm
Killing a Garrison. By The Black Goat.
 
To understand how Goats wipe a garrison you need to know about how one SS in a garrison dies imagine for a moment a big container of water made out of bricks.
 
To wipe a garrison means to empty the container. You can shoot a hole on the container by destroying one brick, but this container has a faucet open at the top so one hole is not enough to empty, you need to damage it enough so that it loses water faster than it gains, ( meaning wipe it before players start garrisoning again ) …
 
It takes 5 successful hits to destroy 1 brick. And each brick repairs itself from 1 hit every hour. So to open a whole in the container you need to hit the same brick faster than it heals itself.
 
Now the problem is that you cannot choose which brick you hit, you can only aim for one brick and hit whatever is near, the bricks are grouped by their specialty, meaning “all the battle bricks” ,or all the intrigue ,or all the trade bricks…” which means the bigger the garrison, the less chance that your 100 attacks will land on the same brick…
 
Consider that you have to hit hard enough to damage the brick (power). And sometimes you even hit so hard (crit) that you make 2 wounds…. (5% of the time) But having extra wound gear means you have a chance of doing an extra wound…
 
So basically, if you can damage a brick twice in one punch, means even if you don’t hit it again, by the time it gets healed; it will still have a wound left…. That’s what we call wound accumulation.
 
Imagine all goats targeting this container with guns, and shooting it over and over from a distance so you won’t always hit the same brick, but u will hit nearby, and if you have 90 people shooting, aiming at the same brick ( same type of attack ), bricks will start getting damaged more than once per hour…
 
So that’s why Speed is the most important thing, you could be the best player in the game and hit the hardest numbers, but if you cannot hit the same brick twice in an hour, you will never destroy it. So speed comes first. Try your best to get gear so that you can hit a brick every 30 minutes….
 
Then you need to work on hitting strong enough to make a whole.. Which is usually having a 600 main stat and 80%+ damage to that attack….
 
Once you have that your next priority will be wound gear, so you destroy bricks faster. Garrisons are like the bricks of the containers, and as bricks start falling, the container starts draining, and having less bricks means fewer targets, which means more chances of hitting the same brick twice…. Etc…
 
and as the container gets holes opened everywhere, it finally gets emptied. Once is wiped, imagine someone trying to put one brick while 90 people are shooting at it… it becomes almost impossible to rebuild… and is a wipe!.
 
Obviously if the enemy has enough people active, they will put on garrisons and send and although the game will count them as garrison, they will be "invisible" bricks, only on defense mode while the "owner" leaves garrisons / in between waves.
